---
title: Alpha V Play Test Build pre041
description: 
published: true
date: 2024-09-17T23:30:25.585Z
tags: releases
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2024-09-17T23:30:25.585Z
---

## Release Date: 30th April 2023 

---
# Alpha V Play Test Build pre041 - December 2023
---
## OutFox 5.0.0 Pre-Release Candidate 041 -a9 - April 29th 2023

* ❕✅ Synced updates with the alphav-theme
* ❕✅ NEW! return to the portal link if portal was selected
* ❕✅ Auto Resize ScreenDebugOverlay on low definition (480p) themes
* ❕✅ NEW! restore #LASTBEATHINT to .sm files
* ❕✅ Fixed a slew of parsing bugs in the .sm parser
* ❕✅ Fixed leaked memory in the .sm parser
* ❕✅ Fixed bad update call in DrawPrimitives breaking some mod calls
* ❕✅ Fixed bug with access calls on GameSoundManager
* ❕✅ Fixed potential crash/freeze with ImageCache

---

## OutFox 5.0.0 Pre-Release Candidate 041 -a8 - April 25th 2023

* ❕✅ Fixed bug with favourites not being found sometimes on some systems
* ❕✅ Fixed crash with favourites folder
* ❕✅ Fixed FileWrite Call
* ❕✅ Replaced library used for ImageCache to improve stability and Memory use
* ❕✅ Fixed bug with MIDI buttons not being seen after being saved to keymaps.ini
* ❕✅ Fixed bug with MIDI buttons not being saved on the Map Controller screen for MIDI controllers
* ❕✅ Fixed missing entries on InputDevice
* ❕✅ Added Wii & Wii-U controller support to our HIDAPI Driver
* ❕✅ Fixed stuck buttons on MIDI drumkits due to Channel 09 varying non-zero values.
* ❕✅ Fixed bug with buffer underrun on some sound cards
* ❕✅ NEW! 2 Player ParaPara Mode support with official PS2 controllers!
* ❕✅ Fixed missing official PS2 ParaParaParadise controllers on Mac and Linux
* ❕✅ Fixed bug in ParaPara input driver by rewriting it
* ❕✅ Fixed bug with duplicate controllers on Mac/Linux/Steam

---

## OutFox 5.0.0 Pre-Release Candidate 041 -a7 - April 22nd 2023

* ❕✅ Fixed bug with multiple loads of FGChanges
* ❕✅ Fixed bug with some lua definitions not quite being nil
* ❕✅ Fixed bug with BGChanges crashing on invalid Enums
* ❕✅ Fixed bug with CheckEnum corrupting the lua stack
* ❕✅ Brought over 1-4 player PS2 official parapara controller input driver from Dragons
* ❕✅ Fixed bug with some vectors not being correctly handled in the background calls
* ❕✅ Fixed crash with bad math calls in music wheel
* ❕✅ Fixed chartkey loading 3 times on every action on the music wheel
* ❕✅ Fixed PlayCopy() crash
* ❕✅ Fixed incorrect usage of pushnil in NETMAN
* ❕✅ Fixed crash with enum call in ActorUtil
* ❕✅ Fixed pointer crash on file closing on some modfile calls
* ❕✅ Made the OTO (osu) parser much more stable, and added samplesounds/hitsound support
* ❕✅ Fixed a few wry mutex issues now we are planning for lower latency
* ❕✅ Fixed a reported tickhold bug
* ❕✅ Fixed the reported GetBGChanges() 'bug' by rewriting the methods, as they are now chart specific
* ❕✅ Fixed bug with mod columns calling 88 instances when we don't plan to have piano mode moddable
* ❕✅ Fixed crash with updateholdnotes
* ❕✅ Fixed crash in GameSoundManager
* ❕✅ Re-implement SSC hold metric features - Penalise tap score none/Judge hold notes on same row together/checkpoints flash on hold/immediate hold let go/combo break on immediate hold let go/require step on hold heads/checkpoint taps separate judgement
* ❕✅ Fix issue with GetBGA, by rewriting it to support steps
* ❕✅ Fixed bug with no keysoundfile clearance
* ❕✅ Added new support for OTO (osu) keysounds
* ❕✅ Fixed bug with missing FGChanges calls
* ❕✅ Fixed weird draw issue with some themes and GLAD renderer
* ❕✅ Fixed crash in steps creation
* ❕✅ Changed BGA to be chart based for SSC/SM files
* ❕✅ Fixed crash with favourites affecting speed mods
* ❕✅ Updated Docker builds
* ❕✅ Fixed crashes with Python2/Python3 IO boards
* ❕✅ Fixed bug with ASIO support on win32
* ❕✅ Added pulseaudio to PortAudio in prep for new sound back end
* ❕✅ Fixed clocks for rtAudio on mac/linux
* ❕✅ Added more info for statsoverlay
* ❕✅ Fixed crash with some lower() command calls
* ❕✅ Fixed CODESET offset bug reported by Rythmlunatic

---

## OutFox 5.0.0 Pre-Release Candidate 041 -a6 - April 08th 2023

* ❕✅ Fixed crash on refcount
* ❕✅ Fixed bug with pro-explosions not falling back when not provided
* ❕✅ Fixed bug with calories being default goal on the alpha-v theme
* ❕✅ Fixed def.notefield preview autoplay not reloading on looped audio
* ❕✅ Restore Add and Scale check to smart timing windows
* ❕✅ Fixed ddrio for 32bit machines
* ❕✅ Fixed lua errors on course and endless modes
* ❕✅ Added sound options to themes
* ❕✅ Fixed favourites not loading BGAs
* ❕✅ Added SongPreviewVolume
* ❕✅ Added additional song folder master folder for BMS file support
* ❕✅ Changed UpdateDrawLoopSeconds to take FPS values
* ❕✅ Added option to disable hotswap controller support for performance
* ❕✅ Added set loops per second to ease CPU usage
* ❕✅ Fixed bug with buffer type in rtaudio
* ❕✅ Fixed bug with rounding error on syncing machine
* ❕✅ Fixed FPS inaccuracies
* ❕✅ Fixed bug with misplaced drawloop
* ❕✅ Fixed bug with overflow on sound buffers
* ❕✅ Show shader compile errors onscreen
* ❕✅ Added themepref for NoteDataLimit
* ❕✅ Fixed cast with clock resolution
* ❕✅ Fixed bug with large size notedata loading
* ❕✅ Fixed cache miss

---

## OutFox 5.0.0 Pre-Release Candidate 041 -a5 - April 08th 2023

* ❕✅ Fixed clock method in new audio back end for linux/mac
* ❕✅ Added new round method for sound buffer
* ❕✅ Restored legacy SM-5 driver options for those that requested it
* ❕✅ Fixed bug with repeated samplerate calls
* ❕✅ Fixed missing API support in the main sound driver
* ❕✅ Fixed linux compile with rtAudio
* ❕✅ Fixed correct flags on device initialisation
* ❕✅ Fixed bad code in ragesound
* ❕✅ Fixed panda logger creation
* ❕✅ Added new soundwaves links on main page

---

## OutFox 5.0.0 Pre-Release Candidate 041 -a4 - March 27th 2023

* ❕✅ Fixed Linux builds compiling for modern systems
* ❕✅ Fixed bug with a temp patch for uniformtextures overriding each other
* ❕✅ Added new FBO status information
* ❕✅ NEW! rtAudio stub and skeleton
* ❕✅ Fixed latency with some of the internal audio code
* ❕✅ Fixed audio latency and compile
* ❕✅ Fixed bug in Mac/Linux steam variants by downgrading to 5.2 rtaudio
* ❕✅ Fixed logging and device detection in Linux
* ❕✅ Fixed stuttering on rt-pulseaudio
* ❕✅ Fixed preference information and buffer edits
* ❕✅ Fixed 3.0 era particle animation processes
* ❕✅ Fixed bug with pandalog not using correct loc when set
* ❕✅ Added a new sound logfile for the new systems
* ❕✅ Fixed internal streamtime polling for audio
* ❕✅ Fixed bug with unavailable streams not being available due to a windows quirk
* ❕✅ NEW!! rt-Asio Driver
* ❕✅ NEW!! rt-DirectSound Driver
* ❕✅ NEW!! rt-WASAPI Driver
* ❕✅ NEW!! rt-JACK Driver
* ❕✅ NEW!! rt-ALSA Driver
* ❕✅ NEW!! rt-Pulse Driver
* ❕✅ NEW!! rt-OSS (4+) Driver
* ❕✅ NEW!! rt-CoreAudio Driver
* ❕✅ Fixed bug with legacy SM drivers trying to set a rate that's not supported
* ❕✅ Fixed bug in accuracy of sound by removing SM 2.5x era cruft
* ❕✅ Added new sound driver selection in the debug stats
* ❕✅ Fixed bug with missing favourites folder stuff on soundwaves, you can now use this
* ❕✅ Fixed crash on Jack not available - do not use this driver unless you run jack for now, we need to code the path for it.

---

### THIS BUILD HAS A NEW SOUND BACK END!!


This build utilises a new back end and completely does away with the old SM5 drivers. It was super heavily requested by the community that we have something configurable that could be used to lower latency in the game for key-sounded and hit sounded modes, so we delayed this build to squeeze it in. There are still a couple of bugs which will be ironed out, but for 99% of users, this build will work fine.

LOW LATENCY AUDIO GET!

With lower latency, comes some compromises. It is super clear and sharp, you have better clarity, it obviously uses new drivers, which include some new preferences, see below.


We have discovered Discord does NOT like low latency based drivers... AT ALL. please bear this in mind if you decide to play with ASIO/set your CoreAudio below 1024, and ensure you have a secondary sound card Discord can use, so you aren't greeted with silence.

WINDOWS:
ASIO supports down to a blocksize of 32 in the internal driver, now while you can set this in the new preferences (see below) if you hear crackling or garbled audio, just raise this a bit. You can use anything from 32 to 4096 as your block size, higher values being higher latency.

WASAPI supports from 64 to 4096, and replaces waveout as the default driver. It has the benefit of not being legacy or using an old back end to output, and can have it's buffer lowered to suit the system.

Lastly we have DirectSound, mainly due to the fact it has been requested for older windows builds, but users should always try to see if WASAPI (which is Vista ->) is available. DirectSound is 512 ->

The new driver has had to be sample rate locked and hardcoded to 44.1kHz right now due to limitations in the back end, but we will be removing all the old legacy code in the coming months, so you will be able to enjoy 48kHz clarity really soon.

LINUX:
ALSA now uses a new back end, as well as no longer using a 15 year out of date code pathway, we no longer have to patch it for OutFox. It fully supports shared mode, so no more silence on calls when you're using it, and it also behaves better on the Raspberry Pi/SoC board for arm, fixing the 10+ year old bugs. If your kernel is pre 4.12, you may get a crash on the first run due to the old kernel code, but the game should find your system devices properly on the second run. We're looking into this atm.

PulseAudio now runs without the ALSA hook, and again isn't exclusive or forces weirdness. It can run with low latency as well, as well as sharing properly. At this release, it will likely use the ALSA device, but we will be adding the option to choose the device the specific APIs can use, so watch this space for that. There is also a quirk with Pulse where it reports the output and input devices back to front, so we have put in a workaround for this too.

JACK - Jack now is built in without the need for extra hooks or compiler options, and simply just... works. If you do not use this driver, do not add it to your preferences, as this can cause a crash right now, it will be fixed in the final version of 041. JACK is also available on MacOS, a bonus feature there.

BSD/CONSOLE:
OSS 4+ is available for BSD builds

MACOS:
CoreAudio now runs newer code as well, which also fixes the odd quirk in Ventura with the audio thread sometimes dropping out. We will also add code for audio device handover, as this new driver supports it, so no more crashing when your bluetooth headphones die and disconnect. Be warned, however, Bluetooth audio can not take a too low block setting, so experiment.


### New Preferences in this build

SextetStreamInputFilename=
Used for the new Sextet input handler I forgot to code in >.>

SoundrtAudioAPIName=
This selects the audio back end for your system. It will be self populated on first run with a safe default, but you can override it with a comma'ed list of inputs.

You have a choice of the following:

MacOS
core - Use for CoreAudio
jack - Use for JACK

Linux
alsa - Use for ALSA
jack - Use for Jack
pulse - Use for PulseAudio
oss - Use for the Linux OpenSoundSystem

Windows
asio - Use for ASIO
wasapi - Use for WASAPI
ds - Use for DirectSound

They can be used as a list with commas, so "wasapi,ds,asio"

SoundrtAudioLastUsedCard=
This is a pref to highlight the last used card, it's purely for the internal driver, like 'lastseenvideocard'

SoundrtAudioNumberofChannels=
This pref is for number of output channels/speakers your system supports. It will be up to 8 when the code is written, but for now, leave it at 2, due to the legacy code. It will be ignored if you add anything else!

SoundrtAudioPreferredSampleRate=
This pref is for the samplerate of your device, and will be settable in time. It will return the preferred rate your card wants, but will sadly be set to 44.1 due to the restrictions of the legacy code. Will be unlocked when we remove the rest of RageSound

SoundrtAudioSetBufferSize=
This pref is where you set your latency block size. It supports 32 frame to 4096 frames as per the ASIO/latency standards. If your audio crackles or glitches, remember to adjust this, it is not a bug in the game! With lower latency comes a bit more instability, so bear this in mind when you adjust this value.

Linux users will need a lowlatency compiled kernel and preferrably a kernel newer than 4.12 to take advantage of this. MacOS users need Big Sur to use < 256, and Windows 7+ for < 128

This driver is not enabled on windows yet due to some quirks with windows 10/11 which we are looking into.

---

## OutFox 5.0.0 Pre-Release Candidate 041 -a3 - March 19th 2023

* ❕✅ Fixed bug with some windows versions crashing on boot with a weird waveout quirk
* ❕✅ Fixed misaligned pomu noteskin layouts on bun/cat/retro skins
* ❕✅ NEW! Be-mu/Po-mu backplate support - they run like gh/backplates
* ❕✅ Fixed crash with textbanner if steps are empty
* ❕✅ NEW! Actor Screen Textures!! These work similar to nitg AFTs
* ❕✅ Fixed transparency issues with opengl
* ❕✅ Fixed bug with AFTs not affecting FOV outside of itself
* ❕✅ Fixed triple sort call on musicwheel
* ❕✅ Fixed visible list on EffectModes
* ❕✅ Fixed FOV for AST/AFT so they are the same
* ❕✅ Fixed cache bugs with bannercache
* ❕✅ Fixed crash when taking screenshot
* ❕✅ Fixed hang when taking screenshot
* ❕✅ Fixed odd setlocale bug
* ❕✅ Fixed leegacy GL pipe for AFT/AST
* ❕✅ Fixed re-sorting stutter on musicwheel
* ❕✅ NEW! Added Din's DDRIO Driver adjusted for OF
* ❕✅ NEW! Added Din's ITGIO lights fixes
* ❕✅ NEW! Added Din's Lights Exports Fixes
* ❕✅ NEW! Added Din's PIUIO/LEDs/stac drivers and fixes
* ❕✅ Fixed sextetstream compiling
* ❕✅ NEW!! Input SextetStream driver
* ❕✅ Fixed bug with missing lights on sextetstream
* ❕✅ Fixed typo so pacdrive now works on 32 AND 64bit windows
* ❕✅ Fixed bug with density data so it's now done by engine
* ❕✅ Fixed lag with datagen from decompress
* ❕✅ Fixed crash with filedriver if the type isn't in map

---

## OutFox 5.0.0 Pre-Release Candidate 041 -a1+a2 - March 7th 2023

* ❕✅ Fixed crash with legacy arm builds
* ❕✅ Fixed crash on miniholds
* ❕✅ Fixed crash with ubuntu <= 17.10 users
* ❕✅ Fixed crash with arm + legacy builds
* ❕✅ Fixed crash with soundcards on Windows 8+ (Thanks EvieUwO for report)
* ❕✅ Fixed stuck buttons on rtMIDI input (Thanks LightHexagon for report)
* ❕✅ Fixed e-drums MIDI velocity channel quirk (Thanks LightHexagon for report)
* ❕✅ Fixed latency/lag in BMS/be-mu mode making it unplayable (Thanks Daniel Rotwind for report)
* ❕✅ Fixed latency/lag in PMS/po-mu mode making it unplayable (Thanks goodsun for report)
* ❕✅ Fixed latency/lag in DTX/gddm mode making it unplayable (Thanks goodsun for report)
* ❕✅ Fixed AMod/CAMod/AVMod speed mod issues
* ❕✅ NEW! FBO DoubleBuffer System for our render pipe
* ❕✅ Fixed bug with lack of stencil support on FBOs in MacOS
* ❕✅ Fixed FBO Transparency with modfiles
* ❕✅ NEW! Added new 'PowerOfTwo' variable for AFTs (Requested by our Modding community)
* ❕✅ Fixed GLAD FBO system for ARM systems
* ❕✅ Fixed bug with draw update with receptors and note flashes
---